README.md, before:

![](common/images/customer.logo.png)
---
# ORACLE Learning Library #

Note: Content in the README is under development

## Introduction ##

Oracle Cloud is the industry’s broadest and most integrated public cloud. It offers best-in-class services across software as a service (SaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and infrastructure as a service (IaaS), and even lets you put Oracle Cloud in your own data center. Oracle Cloud helps organizations drive innovation and business transformation by increasing business agility, lowering costs, and reducing IT complexity. The workshop content shows different aspects of Application Development in the cloud with different set of Oracle Cloud Services.


### Prerequisites ###

Workshops contained in this repository are intended to work with an Oracle PaaS trial account. To get an account look into [here](common/request.for.trial.md). Get the following account details ready to complete the tutorial and replace to your values when it is required:

+ Oracle Cloud account **username** and **password**
+ Oracle Cloud **identity domain**
+ **Data center/region**

NOTE: Before you start to use your new Oracle Public Cloud services make sure that the replication policy has been set for your account. Otherwise you can not create storage container which is necessary for most of the services. See [Selecting a Replication Policy for Oracle Storage Cloud Service](https://docs.oracle.com/cloud/latest/storagecs_common/CSSTO/GUID-5D53C11F-3D9E-43E4-8D1D-DDBB95DEC715.htm).

### Important ###

During the execution you will create several public cloud service instances what will be available on the world wide web. Even if these instances are for demo purposes keep in mind it is not a best practice to use weak or known (stored here in the tutorial) passwords especially in such open environment. Thus this workshop content does not recommend any password so you need to define those. You will be asked to provide password at certain points and please remember them  for  later usage.

The content contains several independent modules that cover different aspects of the application development in the Oracle Cloud. These modules could be executed independently unless you find in the Prerequisites that they are dependent on each other.

----


## [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md)
Pull Requests are currently not being accepted. See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## [License](LICENSE.md)
Copyright (c) 2014, 2016 Oracle and/or its affiliates
The Universal Permissive License (UPL), Version 1.0

Commit message:

Added folder descriptions in Readme

README.md, after:

![](common/images/customer.logo.png)
---
# ORACLE Learning Library #

Note: Content in the README is under development

## Introduction ##

Oracle Cloud is the industry’s broadest and most integrated public cloud. It offers best-in-class services across software as a service (SaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and infrastructure as a service (IaaS), and even lets you put Oracle Cloud in your own data center. Oracle Cloud helps organizations drive innovation and business transformation by increasing business agility, lowering costs, and reducing IT complexity. The workshop content shows different aspects of Application Development in the cloud with different set of Oracle Cloud Services.


## Repository Folder Structure ##

The following directories are contained within this repository:

**/articles** 
- This folder will contain interesting Articles on Oracle Technology

**/common** 
- This folder contains common images and assets used by content in other folders

**/templates** 
- This folder contains templates used for Articles and Workshops

**/workshops** 
- This folder will contain subfolders, each with documentation for individual workshops. The documentation is always in Markdown Format. 

----


## [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md)
Pull Requests are currently not being accepted. See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## [License](LICENSE.md)
Copyright (c) 2014, 2016 Oracle and/or its affiliates
The Universal Permissive License (UPL), Version 1.0
