articles/solution-engineering-natd/README.md, before:

# Solution Engineering North American Technology Division Interviews

***Note:*** This document is best viewed by clicking on this [github.io link](https://oracle.github.io/learning-library/articles/solution-engineering-natd/)

## Table of Contents
- [Interview Schedule](#Interview-Schedule)
- [Overview Presentation](#Overview-Presentation)
- [Recent Project Presentation](#Recent-Project-Presentation)
- [Touch the Cloud Presentation](#Touch-the-Cloud-Presentation)
- [Technical Question and Answer Interview](#Technical-Question-and-Answer-Interview)
- [Visual Aids](#Visual-Aids)
- [Oracle Trial Account](#Oracle-Trial-Account)
- [Configure Replication Policy](#Configure-Your-Storage-Replication-Policy)

<a name="Interview-Schedule"></a>

## Interview Schedule

The face to face interview process consists of a technical interview outlined below:

### **Technical Interview** - 45 to 50 minutes

| Interview Section | Minutes | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | 
| Overview | 3 - 5 | Brief overview of yourself, covering your technical experience and capabilities |
| Recent Project Presentation | 10 - 12 | Brief description/presentation on a technical development project on which you have worked |
| Touch the Cloud Presentation | 10 - 12 | Brief presentation on Oracle Cloud Product(s) of interest and relevance |
| Technical Q & A Interview | 20 | Technical Question and Answer Interview |

<a name="Overview-Presentation"></a>

## Overview Presentation

During this presentation, we ask that you provide a brief overview of yourself, including your technical experience and skills. It's not necessary to go into detail, as we will ask more questions during the [Technical Question and Answer Interview](#Technical-Question-and-Answer-Interview) section of the interview. 

<a name="Recent-Project-Presentation"></a>

## Recent Project Presentation

During this presentation, we would like you to provide an overview (or demonstration) of a development project on which you have recently worked. Provide examples of the technology, programming languages, and methodologies you used during this project. Feel free to use the whiteboard or laptop available in the interview room. If you use powerpoint, please keep your presentation to approximately 5 slides.  

## Touch the Cloud Presentation

![Touch The Cloud](../../common/images/Touch-the-Cloud.jpg)

<a name="Touch-the-Cloud-Presentation"></a>

### **Touch the Cloud Presentation Overview**:

During this presentation, we ask that you provide a brief summary of the Oracle Cloud Products you have investigated, and that you feel are of interest and relevance. You can find the information you need from Oracle's main [Cloud Home Page](https://cloud.oracle.com/) website. From this website you can investigate Oracle's three categories of Cloud Offerings: [Platform as a Service](https://cloud.oracle.com/en_US/paas), [Infrastructure as a Service](https://cloud.oracle.com/en_US/iaas) and [Software as a Service](https://cloud.oracle.com/en_US/saas). Note: The job for which you are applying will focus primarily on **Platform as a Service** and **Infrastructure as a Service**.  

### **Touch the Cloud Presentation Options**:

When providing your Oracle Cloud Product Presentation, you have two options. With both of these options, if you choose to use Powerpoint, please keep your presentation to 5 slides or less. 

- **Option 1** - Oracle Cloud Investigation and Demo:

    If you have an interest in acquiring an Oracle Trial account for a more in-depth Oracle Cloud investigation, details are provided below on the steps to acquire an [Oracle Trial](#Oracle-Trial-Account). 
    
    Using an Oracle Trial account you can investigate any of the Oracle **Infrastructure** or **Platform** Cloud Services, and present what you learned about your experience and interest in these products. Many of Oracle's **Platform** Services (e.g: Application Container Cloud Service, Container Cloud Service, Developer Cloud Service, Oracle Database / MSQL Cloud Services and Java Cloud Service provide simple demonstrations. Examples are also available using Oracle's **Infrastructure** Cloud Services. ***Note***: you will want to turn off auto-renewal of your account after the trial period in order to avoid being charged for your subsequent cloud service usage. 

- **Option 2** - Oracle Cloud Investigation:

    As an alternative to getting a Trial Account, you can investigate the **Platform** and **Infrastructure** Services and present back some of your findings and interests. You have flexibility in what you present, so have fun with it. A few pointers: We are mostly interested in your understanding of the technical functionality of Oracle's Cloud Services, what you feel Oracle's Cloud capabilities are, and how they may compare to Oracle's competitor's solutions. We're not interested in a sales pitch, we're more interested in your technical understanding. 

<a name="Technical-Question-and-Answer-Interview"></a>

## Technical Question and Answer Interview

During this section of the interview we will ask technical questions based on your experience, and our requirements of the Solution Engineering position. We hope to gain a better understanding of your development expertise, your understanding of development methodologies, and your experience with various programming languages and open source tools and frameworks. 

## Visual Aids

- The interview room will be furnished with a whiteboard and laptop that you can use to present your [Recent Project](#Recent-Project-Presentation) and [Touch the Cloud](#Touch-the-Cloud-Presentation) Presentations.
- Oracle Supplied Laptop: We will have a laptop and prejector available for your use. The laptop will have connectivity to the internet, and you can bring a USB drive if you desire to load a presentation to the laptop.

<a name="Oracle-Trial-Account"></a>

# Oracle Trial Account

Acquiring an Oracle Account is not required for the interview, however, doing so will allow you to see first hand some of Oracle's cloud products before your interview. 

To get an Oracle Trial account, please go the [Oracle Try It](https://cloud.oracle.com/tryit). From this website you can find answers to your questions concerning the Free Trial account, along with step by step instructions on how to register your account. After your account is provisioned, some of the services you may desire to use require that your Account's Storage Replication policy is set prior to using those services. Those instructions are provided later in this guide.

Along with the instruction provided on the Oracle website and **in this document**, you can Click on this [Video Link](https://publicdocs-corp.documents.us2.oraclecloud.com/documents/link/LD408AE98AE514A9D8A5B144F6C3FF17C1177E4725F3/fileview/D5BB8965F597992573C1B2A4F6C3FF17C1177E4725F3/_CloudCredits_VideoEdit.mp4) to view a short video showing how to acquire a trial account. 

## Step by step instructions on Provisioning your Account

### 1. View Details and Sign Up

- From the **TryIt** page, click on the **View Details & Sign Up** button

    ![](./images/image001.png)

- Click on the **Get started for free** link

    ![](./images/image002.png)

### 2. Create your Account

- Enter the required information on the **Create an Oracle Account...** page, and click on **Create Account**.

    ![](./images/image003.png)

- The following dialog indicates that you will receive an confirmation email.

    ![](./images/image004.png)

- Check your email, and click on the **Verify email address** button contained in the received email. 

    ![](./images/image005.png)

- After Verifing your email address, enter your email address into the **User Name** field, enter your **Password**, then click on **Sign In**.

    ![](./images/image006.png)

### 3. Verify your Phone Number

- Enter your **Mobile Phone Number** and click on **Request Code**

    ![](./images/image007.png)

- Enter the **Verification Code** you receive via a phone text message.

    ![](./images/image008.png)

### 4. Enter Account Information

- Enter the required account information.

    ![](./images/image009.png)

- Read the information about the use of your credit card, and Click on the **Add Payment Method** button.

    ![](./images/image010.png)

- Enter your credit card information, and click on **Finish**.

    ![](./images/image011.png)

- **Accept** the terms and conditions, then click on the **Complete** Button. 

    ![](./images/image012.png)

- Note the following steps.

    ![](./images/image013.png)

### 5. Account Confirmation

- The following is an example email confirming your Trial Account request.

    ![](./images/image014.png)

### 6. Confirmation Email

- Once your account has been provisioned, you will receive a **Confirmation Email** that will provide you with your **Identity Domain**, **Password** and **Username**. This email also contains a **My Services URL** link that will allow you to access and log into your account. You may also receive an separate email describing how to connect into to VPN, but in most cases VPN will not be needed for testing. 

    ![](./images/image015.png)


<a name="Configure-Your-Storage-Replication-Policy"></a>

## Configure Your Storage Replication Policy

Once your Trial Account is fully approved and provisioned, you will need to set your Storage Replication Policy. We recommend that you do this as soon as your account is fully provisioned, otherwise some of the PaaS services that may be of interest will not work correctly. The Replication Policy is not automatically set to allow for flexibility on how how it is configured.


### Login to your Oracle Cloud Account
- Using the link and credentials provided in your confirmation email, log into your Oracle Trial Account. 

- Once logged in, you will be presented with a Dashboard displaying the various cloud services available to your account.

    ![](images/Picture100-4.png)

- If your **Storage** cloud service are not visible, **click** on the **Customize Dashboard**, which will allow you to add services to the dashboard by clicking **Show.** For example, you can show the **Application Container, Developer and Storage** cloud services. If you do not want to see a specific service, click **Hide**

    ![](images/Picture100-5.png)

### Check/Set Storage Replication Policy

Depending on the state of your Cloud Account, you will need to set the **Replication Policy**, if it has not been previously set. In this step you will go to the Storage Cloud Service to check on the status of the Replicaton Policy. 

- Click on the **Storage** Cloud Service
    ![](images/Picture-01.png)

- Click on the **Open Service Console** icon at the top of the screen.

    ![](images/Picture-01.5.png)

- If the Replication Policy has not been set, use the default and click on the **Set Policy** button. If the message is not displayed, your replication policy has already been set, and your Cloud Account is ready for use.

    ![](images/Picture-02.5.png)

- Your Replication Policy is now set, and Services that require a Replication Policy will work correctly.

Commit message:

more updates to the note section

articles/solution-engineering-natd/README.md, after:

# Solution Engineering North American Technology Division Interviews

***Note:*** This document is best viewed by clicking on this [github.io link](https://oracle.github.io/learning-library/articles/solution-engineering-natd/)

## Table of Contents
- [Interview Schedule](#Interview-Schedule)
- [Overview Presentation](#Overview-Presentation)
- [Recent Project Presentation](#Recent-Project-Presentation)
- [Touch the Cloud Presentation](#Touch-the-Cloud-Presentation)
- [Technical Question and Answer Interview](#Technical-Question-and-Answer-Interview)
- [Visual Aids](#Visual-Aids)
- [Oracle Trial Account](#Oracle-Trial-Account)
- [Configure Replication Policy](#Configure-Your-Storage-Replication-Policy)

<a name="Interview-Schedule"></a>

## Interview Schedule

The face to face interview process consists of a technical interview outlined below:

### **Technical Interview** - 45 to 50 minutes

| Interview Section | Minutes | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | 
| Overview | 3 - 5 | Brief overview of yourself, covering your technical experience and capabilities |
| Recent Project Presentation | 10 - 12 | Brief description/presentation on a technical development project on which you have worked |
| Touch the Cloud Presentation | 10 - 12 | Brief presentation on Oracle Cloud Product(s) of interest and relevance |
| Technical Q & A Interview | 20 | Technical Question and Answer Interview |

<a name="Overview-Presentation"></a>

## Overview Presentation

During this presentation, we ask that you provide a brief overview of yourself, including your technical experience and skills. It's not necessary to go into detail, as we will ask more questions during the [Technical Question and Answer Interview](#Technical-Question-and-Answer-Interview) section of the interview. 

<a name="Recent-Project-Presentation"></a>

## Recent Project Presentation

During this presentation, we would like you to provide an overview (or demonstration) of a development project on which you have recently worked. Provide examples of the technology, programming languages, and methodologies you used during this project. Feel free to use the whiteboard or laptop available in the interview room. If you use powerpoint, please keep your presentation to approximately 5 slides.  

## Touch the Cloud Presentation

![Touch The Cloud](../../common/images/Touch-the-Cloud.jpg)

<a name="Touch-the-Cloud-Presentation"></a>

### **Touch the Cloud Presentation Overview**:

During this presentation, we ask that you provide a brief summary of the Oracle Cloud Products you have investigated, and that you feel are of interest and relevance. You can find the information you need from Oracle's main [Cloud Home Page](https://cloud.oracle.com/) website. From this website you can investigate Oracle's three categories of Cloud Offerings: [Platform as a Service](https://cloud.oracle.com/en_US/paas), [Infrastructure as a Service](https://cloud.oracle.com/en_US/iaas) and [Software as a Service](https://cloud.oracle.com/en_US/saas). Note: The job for which you are applying will focus primarily on **Platform as a Service** and **Infrastructure as a Service**.  

### **Touch the Cloud Presentation Options**:

When providing your Oracle Cloud Product Presentation, you have two options. With both of these options, if you choose to use Powerpoint, please keep your presentation to 5 slides or less. 

- **Option 1** - Oracle Cloud Investigation and Demo:

    If you have an interest in acquiring an Oracle Trial account for a more in-depth Oracle Cloud investigation, details are provided below on the steps to acquire an [Oracle Trial](#Oracle-Trial-Account). 
    
    Using an Oracle Trial account you can investigate any of the Oracle **Infrastructure** or **Platform** Cloud Services, and present what you learned about your experience and interest in these products. Many of Oracle's **Platform** Services (e.g: Application Container Cloud Service, Container Cloud Service, Developer Cloud Service, Oracle Database / MSQL Cloud Services and Java Cloud Service provide simple demonstrations. Examples are also available using Oracle's **Infrastructure** Cloud Services. **Note**: ensure you do ***NOT*** select "**Yes, convert my account to Pay as you go at the end of the free promotion**" located in the Billing Section, as Checking this option would convert your account to Pay as you go after the $300.00 credit or 30 days have been fulfilled.  

- **Option 2** - Oracle Cloud Investigation:

    As an alternative to getting a Trial Account, you can investigate the **Platform** and **Infrastructure** Services and present back some of your findings and interests. You have flexibility in what you present, so have fun with it. A few pointers: We are mostly interested in your understanding of the technical functionality of Oracle's Cloud Services, what you feel Oracle's Cloud capabilities are, and how they may compare to Oracle's competitor's solutions. We're not interested in a sales pitch, we're more interested in your technical understanding. 

<a name="Technical-Question-and-Answer-Interview"></a>

## Technical Question and Answer Interview

During this section of the interview we will ask technical questions based on your experience, and our requirements of the Solution Engineering position. We hope to gain a better understanding of your development expertise, your understanding of development methodologies, and your experience with various programming languages and open source tools and frameworks. 

## Visual Aids

- The interview room will be furnished with a whiteboard and laptop that you can use to present your [Recent Project](#Recent-Project-Presentation) and [Touch the Cloud](#Touch-the-Cloud-Presentation) Presentations.
- Oracle Supplied Laptop: We will have a laptop and prejector available for your use. The laptop will have connectivity to the internet, and you can bring a USB drive if you desire to load a presentation to the laptop.

<a name="Oracle-Trial-Account"></a>

# Oracle Trial Account

Acquiring an Oracle Account is not required for the interview, however, doing so will allow you to see first hand some of Oracle's cloud products before your interview. 

To get an Oracle Trial account, please go the [Oracle Try It](https://cloud.oracle.com/tryit). From this website you can find answers to your questions concerning the Free Trial account, along with step by step instructions on how to register your account. After your account is provisioned, some of the services you may desire to use require that your Account's Storage Replication policy is set prior to using those services. Those instructions are provided later in this guide.

Along with the instruction provided on the Oracle website and **in this document**, you can Click on this [Video Link](https://publicdocs-corp.documents.us2.oraclecloud.com/documents/link/LD408AE98AE514A9D8A5B144F6C3FF17C1177E4725F3/fileview/D5BB8965F597992573C1B2A4F6C3FF17C1177E4725F3/_CloudCredits_VideoEdit.mp4) to view a short video showing how to acquire a trial account. 

## Step by step instructions on Provisioning your Account

### 1. View Details and Sign Up

- From the **TryIt** page, click on the **View Details & Sign Up** button

    ![](./images/image001.png)

- Click on the **Get started for free** link

    ![](./images/image002.png)

### 2. Create your Account

- Enter the required information on the **Create an Oracle Account...** page, and click on **Create Account**.

    ![](./images/image003.png)

- The following dialog indicates that you will receive an confirmation email.

    ![](./images/image004.png)

- Check your email, and click on the **Verify email address** button contained in the received email. 

    ![](./images/image005.png)

- After Verifing your email address, enter your email address into the **User Name** field, enter your **Password**, then click on **Sign In**.

    ![](./images/image006.png)

### 3. Verify your Phone Number

- Enter your **Mobile Phone Number** and click on **Request Code**

    ![](./images/image007.png)

- Enter the **Verification Code** you receive via a phone text message.

    ![](./images/image008.png)

### 4. Enter Account Information

- Enter the required account information.

    ![](./images/image009.png)

- Read the information about the use of your credit card, and Click on the **Add Payment Method** button.

    ![](./images/image010.png)

- Enter your credit card information, and click on **Finish**.

    ![](./images/image011.png)

- **Accept** the terms and conditions, then click on the **Complete** Button. 

    ![](./images/image012.png)

- Note the following steps.

    ![](./images/image013.png)

### 5. Account Confirmation

- The following is an example email confirming your Trial Account request.

    ![](./images/image014.png)

### 6. Confirmation Email

- Once your account has been provisioned, you will receive a **Confirmation Email** that will provide you with your **Identity Domain**, **Password** and **Username**. This email also contains a **My Services URL** link that will allow you to access and log into your account. You may also receive an separate email describing how to connect into to VPN, but in most cases VPN will not be needed for testing. 

    ![](./images/image015.png)


<a name="Configure-Your-Storage-Replication-Policy"></a>

## Configure Your Storage Replication Policy

Once your Trial Account is fully approved and provisioned, you will need to set your Storage Replication Policy. We recommend that you do this as soon as your account is fully provisioned, otherwise some of the PaaS services that may be of interest will not work correctly. The Replication Policy is not automatically set to allow for flexibility on how how it is configured.


### Login to your Oracle Cloud Account
- Using the link and credentials provided in your confirmation email, log into your Oracle Trial Account. 

- Once logged in, you will be presented with a Dashboard displaying the various cloud services available to your account.

    ![](images/Picture100-4.png)

- If your **Storage** cloud service are not visible, **click** on the **Customize Dashboard**, which will allow you to add services to the dashboard by clicking **Show.** For example, you can show the **Application Container, Developer and Storage** cloud services. If you do not want to see a specific service, click **Hide**

    ![](images/Picture100-5.png)

### Check/Set Storage Replication Policy

Depending on the state of your Cloud Account, you will need to set the **Replication Policy**, if it has not been previously set. In this step you will go to the Storage Cloud Service to check on the status of the Replicaton Policy. 

- Click on the **Storage** Cloud Service
    ![](images/Picture-01.png)

- Click on the **Open Service Console** icon at the top of the screen.

    ![](images/Picture-01.5.png)

- If the Replication Policy has not been set, use the default and click on the **Set Policy** button. If the message is not displayed, your replication policy has already been set, and your Cloud Account is ready for use.

    ![](images/Picture-02.5.png)

- Your Replication Policy is now set, and Services that require a Replication Policy will work correctly.
