workshops/README.md, before:

# Workshop Catalog

![](./images/Touch-the-Cloud.jpg)

## Workshops and Hands-on-labs

| Title | Location | Desc |
| ----- | -------- | ---- |
| DevOps Cloud Native Microservices | [microservices](./microservices/README.md) | Hands-on-labs showing Oracle Developer Cloud Service and Application Container Cloud Service |
| JCS Pipeline using Oracle Stack Manager | [jcs-devops](./jcs-devops/) | Hands-on-labs showing a Software Development Lifecycle using the Oracle Developer Cloud Services, Java Cloud Service and Oracle Stack Manager.|
| DevOps Automation Using Chef and Jenkins | [chefjenkins-devops](./chefjenkins-devops/) | Hands-on-labs showing how to build an automated Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) pipeline using the Oracle cloud and third party tools. The workshop leverages Developer Cloud Service, Jenkins, Oracle Cloud Orchestrations, and Chef|
| Database Cloud Serivces Workshop | [dbcs](./dbcs/) | Hands-on-labs that will give you a basic understanding of the Oracle Database Cloud Service and many of the capabilities around administration and database development.|
| Database Cloud Serivces In-Memory Workshop | [dbcs-in-memory](./dbcs-in-memory/) | Hands-on-labs that will guide you through the basic configuration of the In-Memory column store (IM column store), as well as illustrating the benefits of its key features.|
|Oracle Big Data Prep-BI Cloud Services Workshop | [bdpcs-bics](./bdpcs-bics/) | Hands-on-labs workshop that focuses on LOB user preparation, discovery, and reporting on spreadsheet data using the Big Data Preparation Cloud Service and BI Cloud Service|

Commit message:

Added reference to ttc-dev-ops-starter-kit and ttc-quote-to-order

workshops/README.md, after:

# Workshop Catalog

![](./images/Touch-the-Cloud.jpg)

## Workshops and Hands-on-labs

| Title | Location | Desc |
| ----- | -------- | ---- |
| DevOps Cloud Native Microservices | [microservices](./microservices/README.md) | Hands-on-labs showing Oracle Developer Cloud Service and Application Container Cloud Service |
| DevOps Starter Kit | [ttc-dev-ops-starter-kit](./ttc-dev-ops-starter-kit/) | Hands-on-labs that will walk you through using some of the AppDev services found in the Oracle Trial Cloud Account, while applying DevOps principles. |
| iPaaS to Build a Quote to Order Process | [ttc-quote-to-order](./ttc-quote-to-order/) | Hands-on-labs that will use Integration PaaS Services to build a Quote to Order Process |
| JCS Pipeline using Oracle Stack Manager | [jcs-devops](./jcs-devops/) | Hands-on-labs showing a Software Development Lifecycle using the Oracle Developer Cloud Services, Java Cloud Service and Oracle Stack Manager.|
| DevOps Automation Using Chef and Jenkins | [chefjenkins-devops](./chefjenkins-devops/) | Hands-on-labs showing how to build an automated Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) pipeline using the Oracle cloud and third party tools. The workshop leverages Developer Cloud Service, Jenkins, Oracle Cloud Orchestrations, and Chef|
| Database Cloud Serivces Workshop | [dbcs](./dbcs/) | Hands-on-labs that will give you a basic understanding of the Oracle Database Cloud Service and many of the capabilities around administration and database development.|
| Database Cloud Serivces In-Memory Workshop | [dbcs-in-memory](./dbcs-in-memory/) | Hands-on-labs that will guide you through the basic configuration of the In-Memory column store (IM column store), as well as illustrating the benefits of its key features.|
|Oracle Big Data Prep-BI Cloud Services Workshop | [bdpcs-bics](./bdpcs-bics/) | Hands-on-labs workshop that focuses on LOB user preparation, discovery, and reporting on spreadsheet data using the Big Data Preparation Cloud Service and BI Cloud Service|
